title: Thanksgiving 2020

# [%title]
_Published November 25, 2020_

Fun fact: my sister I have taken the same photo before Thanksgiving dinner for as long as I can remember. My parents have a collection dating from back when we had to move the chairs so you could see us to now, when my head is usually behind the chandelier.  

I haven't seen my sister or her husband and kids since July. We won't get that picture this year. We won't get to see the new baby's first Thanksgiving. We won't see who gets what chocolate turkey or who sits in the lucky spot that my mom always hides a treat for.  

Thanksgiving has always been a busy day for us, going to my wife's family for lunch then my family for dinner. But we've always been grateful for good food and even better times with our family. This year will be more or less all over FaceTime. That's just not the same.  

It sucks. It's lonely.  

But it's a small sacrifice to pay to keep as many people alive until spring as possible. 80 years ago, U.S. men my age were required to register for the draft, where they could be sent to risk their lives on the front lines of World War II. I have to stay home, limit the number of people I see, and wear a mask. It's not so bad.  

---

Here in Colorado, the best estimates suggest that more than 1 in 50 people has presympomatic or asymptomatic COVID. This means at a dinner of 10 people (the size of both our normal celebrations), there is a 1 in 5 chance at least one attendee has COVID, and doesn't know it. 20%.[^Harsh footnote: that's worse odds than Russian Roulette…]  

We all mean well, we all want to see people. But you don't know if you're going to infect the people you love or not. You can't know. That's the entire problem with this virus. Most spreading happens before anyone has symptoms.  

We were all able to get away with a lot over summer, when we could meet outside. But we have to take this more seriously again.  

And yes, it's going to suck. The next month or so is usually my favorite time of year and some of the best time I get to spend with people. But I'd rather miss this one year with them than have one year and miss them forever.  

Remind yourself of why we are making these sacrifices. That it will better on the other side. Help is on the way. Lets just help keep each other alive until the vaccines can be rolled out.  

---

But. This year Thanksgiving is even more important for our mental health than ever before.  

Do yourself a favor tomorrow and think of the good things from your life in the past year, no matter how small. Even if its just the safety of your family or a pretty sunrise or two.  

Find some things to be grateful for. Trust me, you can.  

Give thanks. Stay safe, stay strong.  

> But in the end, its only a passing thing, this shadow. Even darkness must pass. A new day will come. And when the sun shines it will shine out the clearer. - Samwise Gamgee, The Lord of the Rings (Films)